# Prediction of accident risk levels in traffic accidents using DL and RBF neural networks applied to a dataset with information on driving events
## Departamento de Informática y Ciencias de la Computación, Escuela Politécnica Nacional.
Authors: Cristian Arciniegas-Ayala, Pablo Marcillo, Ángel Leonardo Valdivieso Caraguay, and Myriam Hernández-Álvarez.

## Abstract
Deep learning (DL) must be worked offline because the training and execution phases are processed separately. This process often requires different computer resources due to the high requirements to obtain the models. A limitation of this approach is that the training data cannot be continuously incorporated into the knowledge base because a long and complex training process needs to be repeated to obtain the new models. Although the environment may not be static, it is crucial to dynamically train models by integrating new information during execution.
Radial Basic Functions Neural Networks (RBFNN) allow for continuous learning due to their high learning speed and simple architecture. These networks are fed with an input layer containing data transformed using Radial Basis Functions (RBF). Thus, the RBFNN enables a direct interpretation of the function, with each node containing only one hidden layer. Its simplified architecture can help improve understanding of the network and achieve faster results.
The present work developed traffic accident risk level prediction models using some artificial neural networks (ANN) with a simulated dynamic dataset approach, adding new data to the training on the fly, given the constant changes in the driver's data, vehicle information, environmental conditions, and traffic accidents. The dataset used to predict traffic accident risk levels was obtained from previous doctoral and master's works at Escuela Politécnica Nacional, which contained information on driving events.
Finally, this study compares the processing time and performance of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) with several Machine Learning (ML) algorithms, including RBF, Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), and Random Forest (RF), using evaluation metrics of accuracy, specificity, and sensitivity-recall. The results provide recommendations for new traffic accident prediction risk level models.
